---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-explorer-s-league/origin-and-founders/"}
---

## Lord Archibald Fairfax

Lord Fairfax, born in the year 7 AD (Ante Dawnbreak) to parents, Giselde and Godfrey Fairfax, nobility within Anbaerin. Archibald grew up in the age where history had been all but completely erased, with only wild tales of sights unimaginable, and heroic deeds, and of gods! But there was little if any first-person accounts, or documentation, or evidence of any kind really! So he dedicated himself to studying as much as he could. He ran through all the books in his house, which was a substantial library for the time, boasting somewhere in the neighborhood of about 40 books, and began seeking tutelage from other scholars more versed. Much was lost in the Darkening, but Archibald was persistent to find people that could tutor him, however, not having any magical prowess himself, and with so few that would willing divide their time from their efforts to tutor a young, over-enthusiastic rich kid, Archibald eventually resigned himself to be an outsider looking in as the Lorekeepers and burgeoning mage societies waded through the wreckage of the past, attempting to meticulously piece history itself back together again.

From these half-baked reconstructions came wild theories and fanciful tales, which served to reignite the passions of the now nearly twenty-year-old Fairfax. And he got an idea! What if he went out to dare the places that no one dared, and explore the unknown!? It seemed that history was being restored at a snail's pace, where surely leaps and bounds could occur if one had the spine for it! Thus the vision for a group of intrepid adventure seekers was born.

Together with three other kindred spirits – other wealthy denizens of Anbaerin that shared his interests: Lady Denala ba'Ysim, the heiress to a navigation company; Lady Iatherien Fraevlas, a Vassari socialite in the Anbaerin scene that never received her Hunt; and Sir Tristan Hawthorne, a veteran of the Dawnbreak campaign – Archibald began his true life's work: the Explorer's League!

After the Explorer's League was established amongst friends, Fairfax and company wasted no time in boldly going where no mortal had dared before! Fairfax's obsession was to chart Rukmär, and to find a way to get to the volcano at the center of the wild and untamed land. In this pursuit he built up a long standing relationship with the dwarves of Thrandun, one of the last urban centers before the chaos of Rukmär. And purportedly, Fairfax managed to "touch" the volcano, though whether this is just wild boasting or not is still up for debate, since no one has been able to use his charts to get to the volcano since. And whether that was due to his lack of cartographical skill, for though learned, he was not graced with skill for the visual arts, or because we know far less about Rukmär and its chaotic landscape than we would like to think, or even a little bit of both – we simply don't know, yet.

Regardless, among Fairfax's achievements include the League's foothold in Thrandun that, while cooled since their alliance with Khazak as the Commonwealth, has been, and continues to be the launching point for most expeditions into the Rukmär. Fairfax in his journey's east, also brought back a piece of cave drawing that he claims is evidence of dragons. But aside from these pinnacle achievements, he laid the groundwork for all those that would come after him. He and his three friends created a legacy that encouraged curiosity and boldness that thrived long after their deaths! Well, the deaths of Archibald, Denala, and Tristan at least.

## Sir Tristan Hawthorne

Sir Tristan Hawthorne was born the second son to a local shopkeeper in the trade center known as Mid-town in Anbaerin. At the time, demons ruled the city having imprisoned their Lord Anbaer. Hawthorne remembered well the birth of the Arcane, and the hope it sparked. The city had long bucked under their demon overlords, discontent with the daily evils that persisted, and now with magic in hand they could wrest their city free of Belial's control. He was a young man in those days, and instantly answered the call of Aemarick "Dawncaller" Frethon to arms to a free Alar!

The next ten years of bloody and dark days, would torment Hawthorne for the rest of his life, but it was all worth it in the end. He acquitted himself well, becoming a skilled combatant and competent tactician, and rising to the rank of Captain. He had a small knack for the Arcane, and learned a few tricks, but devoted himself, like Dawncaller, to the goddess of light, Septur, and became one of her Champions.

Unlike many of Septur's adherents, however, he did not feel the same pull to stay in The Hold at the foot of what was called The Shield, a range of mountains that hemmed in the demonically diseased lands of Naerous. He felt, loosed – let go – as if his services were not needed anymore. The celebrations held for the Armies of the Dawn as they trickled their ways home, became a monotonous drone compared to the absence of his goddess's power, but he remained a devout follower all his days, though not without some resentments. Even the day he was knighted as a Hero of Anbaerin was a dolorous affair.

Though the perceived lack of his goddesses blessings had dampened him, a Captain of the Dawnbreak Campaign and Hero of Anbaerin, there was a piece of him that blazed like the coals of a forge when he thought about all that the demons had done. But the bottle won out against his righteous anger, and he spent several years devoted to it in a depressive slump.

If not for the intervention of a young, passionate rich kid, that happened to overhear his drunken ravings about not learning the lessons of our past, he may have not have recovered from his alcoholic crutch. It was none other than Archibald Fairfax, of course, and over the next few weeks, Fairfax would help to sober Hawthorne up, get him thinking with clarity again, and provide him with a course of action he could follow to help recover from the scars the fell forces of Oth'Amon left on Alar.

Hawthorne, about 20 years Fairfax's senior, became like an uncle to Fairfax as well as a bodyguard of sorts. Together with Denala and Iatharien they would sow the seeds of the Explorer's League. Hawthorne would end up managing personnel, many of whom would come from his old company from the war. But regardless of his duties to the burgeoning organization, he would never stray very far from Fairfax, often personally accompanying him on most of his adventures. Hawthorne would forever remain in Fairfax's debt for giving an aimless and lost soldier on a path to self-destruction a sense of purpose, and a better way to channel his frustrations and anger by simply going where others wouldn't to find answers.

## Denala ba'Ysim

Denala was born to a family of navigators, just as Ank'Jir was getting established. During this time, the Ysim family flourished as excellent navigators, on the skies, sea, or land! Though they were not merchants in the strictest of senses (they did not deal in goods), they sold their skills and founded one of the more prominent navigator's guilds in Jirian society. This offered them quite a few connections and opportunities.

Denala's father, Urham be'Ysim, laid the foundation for a navigator's school, to potentially broaden their influence and prominence. Eventually it grew to a height where expansion was possible, and being that Anbaerin had always been a great trade partner, even if – ethically – they differ, Denala was sent abroad to establish the school and oversee its operations.

Denala had always been fascinated by all the history and relics that had faded away beneath the sands. Much of what had been unearthed recently in the deserts of Ak'Raj seemed to indicate civilizations that existed prior to the Calamity and the Age of Subjugation, which meant that people were clamoring to get to the desert and investigate long buried ancient history. Denala was initially resentful of her father sending her away, as waves and waves of researchers piled into the city looking for navigators to facilitate their dangerous ventures into the sands, but she fell in love with the rich history being uncovered in Anbaerin and the surrounding lands. The creature comforts were also not bad, since the Arcanium was on the cutting edge of new technology and magical discoveries.

Mingling in the same circles that Denala found herself in was Archibald Fairfax. A passionate and charismatic youth that she felt a certain kinship with. Someone stuck on the outside while discoveries were being wrought on all sides. The day Fairfax approached them all with his plan to go out and do the exploring themselves, she was initially reticent. She had spent so many years being the dutiful daughter, building up the navigation empire her father, and his fathers before him, dreamed of, and it was going well in Anbaerin, that it was almost like she shouldn't do what this thing she's always dreamed of because she's been denying herself for so long.

But, no, this was an opportunity! Major exploration ventures were slowing down, and the navigation school was filling up with more and more people. There was a bubble about to burst! So what if they were able to stimulate the market by harnessing the average joe's search for adventure, a young noble's passion, and a school full of would-be-navigators! So she more or less fudged the curriculum to provide the early days of the Explorer's League with novice navigators – with instructor supervision – usually.

## Iatharien Fraevlas

Iatharien Fraevlas, was one of the unfortunate souls affected by Ereisnu, commonly known as the Clouding. With the formative years of her life twisted, jumbled, or erased from memory, she was left adrift without even the knowledge of her own age. Ereisnu was insult to injury, and birthed a seething hatred for all things demonic, since her people – as well as the other long-lived races – were hunted and destroyed for many years before the Clouding, as the memories of elves were like living archives of history.

Her memories after Ereisnu occurred, are crisp and clear, but looking past the Clouding is like trying to penetrate a thick wall of fog. What's left the of memories prior to Ereisnu are vague, faded, twisted, and incoherent, unable to recall any significant events in her life with any clarity. Perhaps the most galling erasure from her memory was the loss of any memory associated with her Hunt, a Vassari rite of passage for adherents of Sylvaril god of The Hunt, especially significant to the children of Sylvaril, the Vassari. A Vassari's Hunt is like the blessing of their god's purpose for their life, without it many simply feel lost and aimless. Some Hunts follow traumatic events, and are Hunts of retribution, some are Hunts of grandeur, and some are Hunts to heal and protect. Vassari often find that their Hunts take them to far flung lands, though after Ereisnu, many left Vassarin, searching for their role in the world on their own. Iatharien was no different.

Initially distraught by such loss, Iatharien made her way to Anbaerin, figuring like many other elves, Vassari, Vallan, and Verran alike, that this new Arcanium would be their salvation. If magic could beat back the devils of the world, then it could cure what they did to their memories. And many mages tried, but to no avail. With the help of The Arcane, mages tried all sorts of procedures, some riskier than others. Iatharien, no matter the avenue she tried, even the riskiest of procedures, could not regain her lost memories.

So she numbed the pain. She worked her way into the social circles of the wealthy, wandering from party to party, looking for thrill after thrill, that is until she met a young human that had such passion and zeal for finding the answers of the past that had been stolen from them. Slowly, not elf-slow though, she began to regain her appetite for what she had lost, and, though regaining her memory seemed a pipe-dream, she found herself looking for answers to the past. She found that she too had an enthusiasm for the myriad of re-discoveries being made! And soon she was on the path towards becoming a respected scholar of history.

Iatharien, book learned as she was, was now itching for the ability to use her knowledge to find definitive answers to her own theories and the prevailing theories of the day. And Archibald Fairfax, that youthful passionate human, proposed a solution: that they search for the answers themselves! She was actually the first of their little historical society to be trusted with Fairfax's initial idea, and encouraged him to bring it to the rest of the group.

Thus the Explorer's League was born, and many an adventurer made! The unfortunate thing about living as long as Vassari do, is that she has outlived each of the other founding members, but their memories, new memories, live on in her and she carries them forward into the future with each daring new adventure as the leader of today's Explorer's League.